= The Condor Adaptor =

The Condor adaptor allows the SAGA engine to interface to resources managed by
[http://www.cs.wisc.edu/condor Condor]. Basically, if you have access to a
Condor pool of machines, you can use SAGA to start and manage jobs on the pool.

This adaptor uses the Condor command-line tools and relies on their proper
configuration on the host machine.

== Setup and Configuration ==

The Condor adaptor suite is enabled by default on the source tree. It can be
enabled/disabled through the `--with-adaptor_suites` configure option. E.g.,

{{{
./configure --with-adaptor_suites=default,condor
}}}

, enables only the "default" adaptors and the the Condor adaptor.

SAGA attempts to detect Condor binaries in the path and configures the adaptor
accordingly. If, for some reason, the configure script is not able to locate
Condor binaries, you can point it in the right direction by using the
`--with-condor=PATH` option, e.g.,

{{{
./configure --with-condor=/opt/local/condor-7.0.5/
}}}

=== Configuration Files ===

Configuration for the adaptor can be found in the source tree at
[source:saga/trunk/adaptors/condor/job/condor_job_adaptor.ini.in adaptors/condor/job/condor_job_adaptor.ini.in].
This file is a template that contains the default configuration as well as some
delimited @variables@ that are replaced by the configure script, to generate the
file `adaptors/condor/job/condor_job_adaptor.ini`, which later gets installed to
`${SAGA_LOCATION}/share/saga/saga_condor_job_adaptor.ini`.

Supported configuration options are documented in the default configuration
file.

== How SAGA maps to Condor ==

The Condor adaptor implements the job package, providing specific support for
the following classes:

{{{
saga::job::service
saga::job::job
}}}

TODO - Granularity of job management
TODO - Supported schemes

=== State Model ===

|| '''Condor Status'''  || '''SAGA Job State''' ||
|| ''none''             || New                  ||
|| Running              || Running              ||
|| Idle                 || Running              ||
|| ^*^Unexpanded        || Running              ||
|| Held                 || Suspended            ||
|| Completed            || Done                 ||
|| Removed              || Canceled             ||
|| Submission Error     || Failed               ||
|| ''other''            || Unknown              ||
^*^According to the Condor documentation, only older versions of Condor use this
status value.

=== Job Descriptions ===

==== Supported Attributes ====

|| '''SAGA Attribute''' || '''Condor Attribute'''   ||
|| Queue                || Universe                 ||
|| Executable           || Executable               ||
|| Arguments            || Arguments                ||
|| Environment          || Environment              ||
|| WorkingDirectory     || Remote_InitialDir        ||
|| Input                || Input                    ||
|| Output               || Output                   ||
|| Error                || Error                    ||
|| JobStartTime         || Deferral_Time            ||
|| NumberOfProcesses    || Queue                    ||
|| ^*^JobContact        || Notify_User              ||
^*^Only the first 'mailto:' entry is mapped, any remaining entries are ignored.

==== File Transfer Directives ====

By default, Condor transfers files generated in the remote working directory
back to the submit machine once a job is finished. This can be changed in the
configuration files for Condor.

The Condor Adaptor maps FileTransfer directives to the Condor attributes
Transfer_Input_Files, Transfer_Output_Files and Transfer_Output_Remaps.

Current limitations include:

 * Local to remote file renaming is not supported.
 * Placing files outside the remote working directory is not supported.
 * Transfer of directory trees is not supported.
 * (Local or remote) File append operations are not supported (these correspond
   to the `>>` and `<<` operators) .

==== Requirements Expression ====

Some SAGA attributes are translated into a Requirements expression for Condor.
The table below shows the mapping.

|| '''SAGA Attribute'''     || '''Condor Requirements'''    ||
|| CandidateHosts           || Machine                      ||
|| CPUCount                 || Cpus                         ||
|| ^*^CPUArchitecture       || Arch                         ||
|| ^*^OperatingSystemType   || OpSys                        ||
^*^Currently the values for these attributes are passed as-is, without proper
translation from the names used in JSDL and the ones in Condor. There is a
preliminary mapping in the source tree, but it is not being used.

Note that by default Condor adds requirements of its own to this expression.
Namely, unless the Operating System and Computer Architecture are specified, it
assumes the user wants the same OS and Architecture of the submit machine.

==== Ignored Attributes ====

Attributes below are ignored with no processing, independent of their value.

|| ^*^Cleanup       ||
|| TotalCPUTime     ||
|| WallTimeLimit    ||
|| JobProject       ||
^*^Technically, Cleanup=false should be unsupported, but this is not currently
enforced.

==== Unsupported Attributes ====

Attributes in the table below are not supported by the adaptor. Their presence
in job descriptions submitted to a Condor service will result in a failure
running the jobs.

|| ^*^Interactive       ||
|| ProcessesPerHost     ||
|| SPMDVariation        ||
|| ThreadsPerProcess    ||
^*^`False` is the only value currently supported for the attribute. There are
plans to support Interactive jobs in the future.

== Internals or Developer notes ==

== Known Issues ==

== Future development ==

